---
{
  "title": "How to stream results from your RAG application",
  "source_url": "https://python.langchain.com/docs/how_to/qa_streaming/",
  "fetched_at": "2025-08-15T13:50:43.513210+00:00"
}
---

# How to stream results from your RAG application

{'retrieve': {'context': [Document(id='5bf5e308-6ccb-4f09-94d2-d0c36b8c9980', metadata={'source': 'https://lilianweng.github.io/posts/2023-06-23-agent/'}, page_content='Fig. 1. Overview of a LLM-powered autonomous agent system.\nComponent One: Planning#\nA complicated task usually involves many steps. An agent needs to know what they are and plan ahead.\nTask Decomposition#\nChain of thought (CoT; Wei et al. 2022) has become a standard prompting technique for enhancing model performance on complex tasks. The model is instructed to “think step by step” to utilize more test-time computation to decompose hard tasks into smaller and simpler steps. CoT transforms big tasks into multiple manageable tasks and shed lights into an interpretation of the model’s thinking process.'), Document(id='d8aed221-7943-414d-8ed7-63c2b0e7523b', metadata={'source': 'https://lilianweng.github.io/posts/2023-06-23-agent/'}, page_content='Tree of Thoughts (Yao et al. 2023) extends CoT by exploring multiple reasoning possibilities at each step. It first decomposes the problem into multiple thought steps and generates multiple thoughts per step, creating a tree structure. The search process can be BFS (breadth-first search) or DFS (depth-first search) with each state evaluated by a classifier (via a prompt) or majority vote.\nTask decomposition can be done (1) by LLM with simple prompting like "Steps for XYZ.\\n1.", "What are the subgoals for achieving XYZ?", (2) by using task-specific instructions; e.g. "Write a story outline." for writing a novel, or (3) with human inputs.'), Document(id='bfa87007-02ef-4f81-a008-4522ecea1025', metadata={'source': 'https://lilianweng.github.io/posts/2023-06-23-agent/'}, page_content='Resources:\n1. Internet access for searches and information gathering.\n2. Long Term memory management.\n3. GPT-3.5 powered Agents for delegation of simple tasks.\n4. File output.\n\nPerformance Evaluation:\n1. Continuously review and analyze your actions to ensure you are performing to the best of your abilities.\n2. Constructively self-criticize your big-picture behavior constantly.\n3. Reflect on past decisions and strategies to refine your approach.\n4. Every command has a cost, so be smart and efficient. Aim to complete tasks in the least number of steps.'), Document(id='6aff7fc0-5c21-4986-9f1e-91e89715d934', metadata={'source': 'https://lilianweng.github.io/posts/2023-06-23-agent/'}, page_content="(3) Task execution: Expert models execute on the specific tasks and log results.\nInstruction:\n\nWith the input and the inference results, the AI assistant needs to describe the process and results. The previous stages can be formed as - User Input: {{ User Input }}, Task Planning: {{ Tasks }}, Model Selection: {{ Model Assignment }}, Task Execution: {{ Predictions }}. You must first answer the user's request in a straightforward manner. Then describe the task process and show your analysis and model inference results to the user in the first person. If inference results contain a file path, must tell the user the complete file path.")]}}
----------------
{'generate': {'answer': 'Task Decomposition is the process of breaking down a complex task into smaller, manageable steps to enhance understanding and execution. Techniques like Chain of Thought (CoT) and Tree of Thoughts (ToT) guide models to think through steps systematically, allowing for better problem-solving. It can be achieved through simple prompting, task-specific instructions, or human input.'}}
----------------
